Add CVE intro article (#816)
chainguard-dev/edu: content/software-security/cves/cve-intro.md

If left unresolved, software weaknesses can advance to become vulnerabilities if hackers are able to exploit them via an attack. For example, not conducting input validation in a program could allow unfiltered or malicious input to affect the program, creating an [_improper input validation_](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/20.html) vulnerability. A notorious example of this is the [Log4Shell vulnerability](https://www.cisa.gov/news-events/cybersecurity-advisories/aa21-356a), which widely impacted many systems that used the Log4j logging utility. 

Attackers may target software vulnerabilities if they see an opportunity to compromise sensitive data or systems for their own benefit. They may choose to prioritize some vulnerabilities over others depending on how lucrative and accessible the opportunity is.

Malicious actors can approach a vulnerability from different [attack vectors](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/security/glossary/attack-vector/) depending on the weakness type being targeted. In some cases, attack vectors are easier to reach, meaning less leverage is required to expose and exploit the software’s weaknesses.

## The CVE Program

> Founded by The MITRE Corporation in 1999, the [CVE Program](https://www.cve.org/About/Overview) was established with the goal to collect and document information surrounding known vulnerabilities in software products. Standing for Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures, CVEs are records of publicly disclosed software vulnerabilities. Over time, the program catalog has expanded to include [over 200,000 software vulnerabilities](https://www.cve.org/About/Metrics), with more being added every day.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Founded by the MITRE Corporation in 1999, the [CVE Program](https://www.cve.org/About/Overview) was established with the goal to collect and document information surrounding known vulnerabilities in software products. Standing for Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures, CVEs are records of publicly disclosed software vulnerabilities. Over time, the program catalog has expanded to include [over 200,000 software vulnerabilities](https://www.cve.org/About/Metrics), with more being added every day.
```

> The CVE Program is supported by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security [Cybersecurity Infrastructure Security Agency](https://www.cisa.gov/) (CISA). In addition, the CVE Program feeds the [U.S. National Vulnerability Database](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln) (NVD) which provides additional information for each CVE entry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CVE Program is supported by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security [Cybersecurity Infrastructure Security Agency](https://www.cisa.gov/) (CISA). In addition, the CVE Program feeds the [U.S. National Vulnerability Database](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln) (NVD), which provides additional information for each CVE entry.
```

[CVE Numbering Authorities](https://www.cve.org/ProgramOrganization/CNAs) (CNAs) are the entities responsible for assigning CVE IDs. CNAs can be software vendors, research groups, open source sponsors, and similar organizations. When a new vulnerability is discovered and reported to a CNA, the CNA will request that a CVE ID is reserved for it. Once reserved, details are added to the CVE record and the entry is published to the database.

## Related software vulnerability efforts

While the CVE Program database functions stand-alone to communicate known vulnerabilities with developers, a variety of related efforts provide additional information and context to support the database. 

- The [Common Vulnerability Scoring System](https://www.first.org/cvss/), or CVSS, is a metric which helps assess the severity of any given vulnerability and serves as a tool for developers who are determining which CVEs to address first.

- Similar to the CVE Program, MITRE also supports the [Common Weaknesses Enumeration](https://cwe.mitre.org/index.html), or CWE. The CWE catalogs product-unspecific types of software weaknesses which may produce vulnerabilities if present in a program.

> - The [U.S. National Vulnerability Database](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/search), or NVD, connects to the CVE database to provide further information regarding CVE entries. The NVD provides additional references and public advisories regarding each vulnerability. It also connects each CVE with a CVSS score, links a vulnerability’s associated CWE(s), and reports if it is in the CISA’s [Known Exploited Vulnerabilities](https://www.cisa.gov/known-exploited-vulnerabilities-catalog) (KEV) catalog.

Reviewer: I would keep consistent with the parentheses above, "whether" instead of "if" because all the two-letter words are hard to scan

```suggestion
- The [U.S. National Vulnerability Database](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/search) (NVD) connects to the CVE database to provide further information regarding CVE entries. The NVD provides additional references and public advisories regarding each vulnerability. It also connects each CVE with a CVSS score, links a vulnerability’s associated CWE(s), and reports whether it is in the CISA’s [Known Exploited Vulnerabilities](https://www.cisa.gov/known-exploited-vulnerabilities-catalog) (KEV) catalog.
```

Reviewer 2: I agree, that is a brain twister :)

---
title: "Selecting a base image"
description: "Criteria for selecting a base image"
lead: "What to look for when choosing a hardened, minimal base image"
type: "article"
date: 2022-08-04T15:21:01+02:00
lastmod: 2022-08-04T15:21:01+02:00

> contributors: ["John Speed Meyers"]

Reviewer 2: Correct me if I am wrong but I think this comment (and the two about the timestamp) should have been updated in my most recent commit! They should be correct and my name should be there
